# YouTube Spam Comment Detector

## Project Information
- **Author:** Braden Tillema
- **Date:** December 9, 2025
- **School:** University of Colorado, Denver
- **Course:** CSCI 5930-H01 (Machine Learning)

## Project Overview
If you have ever used YouTube and scrolled down to read the comment section, you have likely seen a spam comment. Every social media platform experiences  spam comments. Unfortunately, YouTube's detection system is unable to detect all of them, as spammers look for methods to bypass their filters, leading users to have a worse experience when comment sections are overrun by spam comments.

The objective of this project was to develop a Google Chrome browser extension prototype that detects spam comments using Machine Learning. If a comment or reply is classified as spam, it is highlighted red. I created a binary spam comment classifier using Naive Bayes and Logistic Regression using Stochastic Gradient Descent. Using Ensemble Learning, both classifiers vote to determine if a comment is spam. The votes are weighted by the accuracy of the model divided by the sum of the accuracy of each model. This method enables the most accurate model to have the more important vote.

## Getting Started

### Preparing the Models
1. Open the `YouTube-Spam-Comment-Classifier` notebook. I used Python 3.10.15.
2. Run Task 1 to load the stored comment dataset.
3. Optionally, you can manually classify comments to add to the dataset.
    * **Note** This step requires a YouTube API Key. Visit this [guide](https://developers.google.com/youtube/v3/getting-started) to learn how to acquire 1.
    * Create a file named `.env` in the same folder as the notebook.
    * In thienewly created file, add `YOUTUBE_API_KEY=<YOUR_API_KEY>` and save the file.
    * In cell 4, set the `videoId` variable to the Id of the video you wish to pull from.
    * Run cells 4 through 7 to pull the comments and replies.
    * Run cell 8 to classify the comments. Enter 0 for spam, 1 for non-spam, 2 to stop, and 3 to skip.
    * After stopping, the newly classified comments will be saved to the dataset file.
4. Run the remaining cells to create the model.

### Loading the Chrome Extension Prototype
1. Download the `Chrome-Extension` folder.
2. Navigate to chrome://extensions/ on a Chrome browser.
3. Enable developer mode by toggling the button on the top-right of the page.
4. Click the button labeled "Load unpacked" near the top-left of the page.
5. Navigate to and select the `Chrome-Extension` folder. It should now be loaded.
6. Explore a YouTube video's comment section to test the extension.

### Changing Models
1. Locate the `models.json` file generated by the notebook.
2. Copy the file and navigate to the `Chrome-Extension` folder.
3. Delete the existing `models.json` file and paste in the newer one.

## References
1. T. Alberto and J. Lochter. "YouTube Spam Collection," UCI Machine Learning Repository, 2015. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.24432/C58885.
2. R. Hundal, “Build a Chrome Extension – Course for Beginners,” freeCodeCamp.org (YouTube), May 27, 2022. [Online Video]. Available: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0n809nd4Zu4.
